# Scenario: 
## You are a security analyst working at the e-commerce store Buttercup Games. You've been tasked with identifying whether there are any possible security issues with the mail server. To do so, you must explore any failed SSH logins for the root account.  

# 1
To operate effectively, it's essential that SIEM tools ingest and index data. SIEM tools collect and process data so that it becomes searchable events that can be queried, viewed, and analyzed.

So far, you've created a Splunk account and activated and accessed the Splunk Cloud free trial, but your Splunk Cloud instance does not contain any data. Next, you'll need to upload data into Splunk to start querying. Complete the following steps to upload data into Splunk:

# 2 
Now that you've uploaded the data into Splunk, perform your first query to confirm that the data has been ingested, indexed, and is searchable. Follow these steps to perform a query:

Navigate to Splunk Home. (To return to Splunk Home, click the Splunk Cloud logo on the Splunk Cloud page.)

Click Search & Reporting. You may close any pop ups that appear.

In the search bar,  enter your search query:
index="main"
This search term specifies the index. An index is a repository for data. Here, the index is a single dataset containing events from an index named main.

Select All Time from the time range dropdown to search for all the events across all time.

Click the search button. Note that the search button is represented by the magnifying glass icon. Your search should retrieve thousands of events.
 # 3 
 When Splunk indexes data, it attaches fields to each event. These fields become part of the searchable index event data. This helps security analysts easily search for and find the specific data they need. Now that you've run your first query, examine the search results and the fields.

For each event the fields are host, source, and sourcetype. Under SELECTED FIELDS, examine the same fields.
Examine the field values by clicking on the field under SELECTED FIELDS. You should observe the following:

host: The host field specifies the name of the network host from which the event originated. In this search there are five hosts:

mailsv - Buttercup Games' mail server. Examine events generated from this host.

www1 - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.

www2 - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.

www3 - This is one of Buttercup Games' web applications.

vendor_sales - Information about Buttercup Games' retail sales.

source: The source field indicates the file name from which the event originates. You should identify eight sources. Notice /mailsv/secure.log, which is a log file that contains information related to authentication and authorization attempts on the mail server.

sourcetype: The sourcetype determines how data is formatted. You should observe three sourcetypes. Examine secure-2.

# 4 
Because you've been tasked with exploring any failed SSH logins for the root account on the mail server, you'll need to narrow the search results for events from the mail server.

Under SELECTED FIELDS, click host and click mailsv.

Notice that a new term has been added to the search bar: index=main host=mailsv. The search results have narrowed to over 9000 events that are generated by the mail server.

# 5 
Now that you've narrowed your search results to events generated by the mail server, continue to narrow the search to locate any failed SSH logins for the root account. 

Clear the search bar.

Enter index=main host=mailsv fail* root into the search bar.
This search expands on the search from the previous task and searches for the keyword fail*. The wildcard tells Splunk to expand the search term to find other terms that contain the word fail such as failure, failed, etc. Lastly, the keyword root searches for any event that contains the term root.

Click search.

# 6 
Your search from the previous task should have retrieved search results for over 300 events. Navigate to other pages of the search results to observe the events not listed on the first page of results.

Pro tip: Splunk highlights search terms in search results to make it easier to identify where the search terms appear in the data.
